- Hi, I'm Ed Haines with Hadley.
Do you or your family members know who to call
when disaster strikes?
In this session, we're going to address
an important part of emergency response,
an emergency contact list.
With what we'll learn in less time than it takes
to watch a TV show, we'll be able to organize our
contacts in a way that will change how
we respond to an emergency.
Anyone who's been through a power outage,
knows how frustrating it is to search for a utility
company's phone number.
Coping with emergencies effectively means knowing how to
quickly contact the people and systems we need for help.
Now, we know what essential information we need, but we
often haven't put that knowledge into practice.
In other words, our important emergency contact
information is all over the place, and not collected
into one easy-to-access list.
Now, most of us don't have an organized system.
We have some phone numbers in our address book,
some are on the refrigerator,
some times we have to find numbers on the internet.
That's not always an option during a power outage
when your router's down.
And this type of disorder, it's not helpful.
It's important to have all our information immediately
ready and accessible to everyone in the household.
Let's talk about some of the obvious emergency contact
information we need, and don't worry,
we'll have templates available as a resource for you
to easily create your own list.
First, you need your medical information.
The phone numbers of your doctors, dentists, local hospital,
pharmacist, and specialists, like optometrists.
You'll also need the phone numbers for your community
resources like the police, fire departments,
poison control center, Red Cross,
utility companies, et cetera.
It's also helpful to have the phone numbers of relatives
and friends you can count on for assistance and
if there are children or grandchildren in your
household, you need the pediatrician's
and school numbers, too.
Some less obvious numbers we could include on our list
would be an attorney, insurance agent, plumber,
electrician, heating and air technician, and
an internet provider.
And if you live in an apartment,
you need the number for your building's supervisor.
If you have pets, or a service animal,
include information for the veterinarian and
the local animal shelter.
And finally, it's important to have the number of
a relative or friend, some distance from us,
where we might stay if we have to evacuate.
There are probably many, many other numbers
you can think of, but for now, the important thing
to remember is that we need to include crucial contact
information having to do with all aspects of our life.
And everyone in the family should have access to
this list and be able to read it.
So if the list is brailed, keep a print copy as well,
if there are sighted family members in the home.
If there are children and they're old enough,
the children should know which numbers to call, and
when to call them.
Now you might be thinking, I already have all these numbers
in one place, they're on my mobile phone contact list.
But here's a problem.
Most of us lock our phones for security.
Our contact list is not accessible on a locked phone, so,
if someone other than ourselves needs to access
the list, they can't.
Now there are ways to make sure your emergency contacts
show up on your locked screen of your mobile device.
So if that's where you want to keep them,
a bit of homework is needed.
Each device has different settings for making that possible.
But again, if the phone is away from home with the owner,
so is the emergency contact list.
There's one more piece of information we need to organize
and include in our contact list and
that is an evacuation destination.
If we have to evacuate, where would we go and
how would we get there?
If possible, have at least two destinations.
Places like shelters, or relatives, or friends homes.
Also, if possible, everyone in the household should know
how to get to these destinations.
That means knowing the streets, the turns, the cardinal
directions, the landmarks, distances, et cetera.
We should be able to direct a complete stranger to our
place of safety without relying on anyone for directions.
Some of us who are non-drivers sometimes rely on others to
get us from Point A to Point B.
That's fine, but we often don't pay much attention
to routes and directions.
That's a luxury we can't afford in an evacuation.
Remember, you are better off if you are responsible as much
as possible for your own orientation.
So get busy!
Remember how I said in less time than it takes
to watch a TV show, you could make a useful impact on
you and your family's safety?
Putting together an emergency contact list
won't take much time, but having one handy when you need it,
will make all the difference in an emergency.
(soft music)